DevOps describes the adoption of iterative software development,
automation and programmable infrastructure deployment and maintenance

development continiously happening in dev and test teams but in operations its stability 
so lot of conflicts over there previously

While DevOps is not a technology,
DevOps environments generally have common methodologies.


DevOps is a methodology meant to improve work 
throughout the software development lifecycle. You can visualize a DevOps process as an 
infinite loop, comprising these steps: plan, code, build, test, release, deploy, operate, monitor 
and -- through feedback -- plan, which resets the loop.


ALM(application life cycle management)
-plan -> code -> build -> test -> release
-Continuous process of managing an application
-reduce time between committing a change
-Ensuring high quality

12Factor app
-The twelve-factor app is a methodology for building software-as-a-service apps that:

I.Codebase 
II.Dependencies 
III.Config 
IV.Backing services 
V.Build, release, run	
VI.Processes	 
VII.Port binding	
VIII.Concurrency	
IX.Disposability	
X.Dev/Prod parity	
XI.Logs
XII.Admin Processes	

SDLC Meaning
-
Image result for what is software development life cycle
 The software development lifecycle (SDLC) is a framework that development teams use to
 produce high-quality software in a systematic and cost-effective way.
 Both large and small software organizations use the SDLC methodology. 
 These teams follow development models ranging from agile to lean to waterfall and others.

SDLC phases
-Phase 1: Requirement collection and analysis
 Phase 2: Feasibility study
 Phase 3: Design
 Phase 4: Coding
 Phase 5: Testing
 Phase 6: Installation/Deployment
 Phase 7: Maintenance

1.Requirement analysis -
 The requirement is the first stage in the SDLC process. It is conducted by the senior team members
 with inputs from all the stakeholders and domain experts in the industry. 
 Planning for the quality assurance requirements and recognization of 
 the risks involved is also done at this stage.

2.Feasibility study -
 Once the requirement analysis phase is completed the next sdlc step is to define and document software needs.
 This process conducted with the help of 'Software Requirement Specification' document also known as 'SRS' document
 It includes everything which should be designed and developed during the project life cycle.

There are mainly five types of feasibilities checks:

Economic: Can we complete the project within the budget or not?
Legal: Can we handle this project as cyber law and other regulatory framework/compliances.
Operation feasibility: Can we create operations which is expected by the client?
Technical: Need to check whether the current computer system can support the software
Schedule: Decide that the project can be completed within the given schedule or not.

3.Design -
 In this third phase, the system and software design documents are prepared
 as per the requirement specification document. This helps define overall system architecture.

There are two kinds of design documents developed in this phase:
HLD - Brief description and name of module
      Interface relationship and dependencies between modules
      Database tables identified along with their key elements
      Complete architecture diagrams along with technology details

LLD - Functional logic of the modules
      Database tables, which include type and size
      Complete detail of the interface
      Addresses all types of dependency issues
      Listing of error messages
      Complete input and outputs for every module

4.Coding -
 Once the system design phase is over, the next phase is coding. 
 In this phase, developers start build the entire system 
 by writing code using the chosen programming language. 
 In the coding phase, tasks are divided into units or 
 modules and assigned to the various developers. 
 It is the longest phase of the Software Development Life Cycle process.

5.Testing -
 Once the software is complete, and it is deployed in the testing environment.
 The testing team starts testing the functionality of the entire system. 
 This is done to verify that the entire application works according to the customer requirement.
 
 During this phase, QA and testing team may find some bugs/defects 
 which they communicate to developers. The development team fixes  
 the bug and send back to QA for a re-test.

6.Installation -
 Once the software testing phase is over and no bugs or errors left in the system then 
 the final deployment process starts. Based on the feedback given by the project manager, 
 the final software is released and checked for deployment issues if any.

7.Maintance -
Once the system is deployed, and customers start using the developed system, following 3 activities occur

Bug fixing - bugs are reported because of some scenarios which are not tested at all
Upgrade - Upgrading the application to the newer versions of the Software
Enhancement - Adding some new features into the existing software




