1.cd 
-it is used to change the current working directory to
a specified folder inside the terminal.
2.cd ..
-This command is used to navigate to the parent directory of the current directory
3.ls
-The ls command in Linux is used to display a directory's files and folders.
4.ls -l: The -l tag is used to display a detailed version 
of every file and directory available inside the current working directory.
5.cat
The cat command in Linux is used to read the contents 
of one or more files and display their contents inside the terminal.
(cat test1.txt) (cat -n test1.txt test2.txt)

(cat -b This adds line numbers to non-blank lines
cat -n This adds line numbers to all lines
cat -s This squeezes blank lines into one line
cat –E This shows $ at the end of line)

6.touch
The touch command in Linux is used to create a new file without any content inside it.
(touch style.css script.js)
7.mkdir
The mkdir command in Linux is used to create new directories inside an existing working directory from the terminal.
(mkdir --help: Used to display relevant information pertaining to the mkdir command.)
8.pwd
The pwd command in Linux translates to "Print Working Directory" 
and is used to display the path of the current working directory inside the terminal.
9.echo
The echo command in Linux simply displays a line of text/string which is passed in as an argument.
It is commonly used for debugging shell programs inside the terminal.
(echo -e "Learn \nBy \nDoing": The '-e' tag enables the echo command to recognize the backslash escape sequences inside the argument.)
10.rm
-The rm command in Linux helps you delete files and directories. 
-deletes all references to objects from the filesystem, 
11.rmdir
-The rmdir command in Linux only allows you to delete empty directories. So if a directory has some files/folders inside it, rmdir will display an error.
12.wget
-The wget command in Linux is a utility tool to download applications/web pages directly from the web.
13.mv
-The mv command in Linux translates to 'move'. It performs two major functions in Linux:
1.You can rename a file/directory using this command.
2.You can easily move a file/directory from one location to another.
14.cp
The cp command in Linux translates to 'copy'. It is used to copy files/directories from one location to another from inside the terminal.
15.tree
-The tree command in Linux can be used to list out the contents of directories in a tree-like fashion.
16.grep
-The grep command in Linux searches through a specified file and prints all lines that match a given pattern.
(grep -i <running> <test1.txt>)
17.vi
-The vi command in Linux allows a user to edit any text content inside the Vim text editor from the terminal.
18.head
-head -n <number> <Filename>
-Used to print the first <number> lines of the specified files
19.history
-The history command in Linux is used to view a history of all the commands previously executed inside the bash terminal
20.chmod
change mode give permission
(chmod 777 filename)

ls -l
drwxrwxr--
owner-group-others
-r recursive,-f force,-v verbose

21.sudo useradd <username> Adding a new user
sudo passwd <username> Setting a password for the new user
sudo userdel <username> Deleting the user
sudo groupadd <groupname> Adding a new group
sudo groupdel <groupname> Deleting the  group
sudo usermod -g <groupname> <username> Adding a user to a primary group


